As I mentioned in a few videos recently, I
am the sort of guy who reads annual financial
reports from major vegan foundations and institutions
because I'm trying to learn from their experience.
I'm trying to learn from what they're doing
right and what they're doing wrong.
And I was surprised when I found in the pages
of the Vegan Society’s Annual Report, they
claim that the word vegan is their trademark.
Not only do they have the word trademarked,
they are successfully using this trademark
to generate quite a lot of money, you can
see the exact amount of money in British pounds
on screen, it works out to be more than half
a million U.S. dollars per year.
That's a surprise, I think for anyone who
conceives of veganism as a political movement,
as an ideology, or even as a diet, you're
shocked to find out that the word vegan is
held as a trademark.
If it's going to be held as a trademark, I'm
happy to learn that the vegan society owns
it as a trademark and it's not owned by some
other for-profit company or entity or corporation,
that'd be even stranger.
But nevertheless, I can't say I'm really comfortable
with the idea of anyone having a trademark
on the word vegan, I don't think anyone can
be comfortable with seeing that there's a
trademark on their own political ideology.
And I have over the years seen some products
avoid using the word vegan, they use these
other terms like plant-based, or they just
have a whole other sentence on the package
saying it “does not contain any animal products
or any animal derived products.”
It never occurred to me that some of those
products might be avoiding the use of the
word ‘vegan,’ because it was trademarked
or because there'd be an expectation for them
to actually pay money to a foundation or agency,
to be able to use the word.
Now I don't have any reason to think that
the vegan society is abusing their power in
holding this trademark, I'd be very interested
even to know if anyone wants to email me if
they've heard something or read something
about what the implications of this are for
companies who are using the word vegan.
I just feel that we already have too much
of a problem, with individuals and political
movements avoiding the word vegan.
It'd be a much longer video if I got into
that, but I've seen that, I've even seen formal
political movements within Canada that said
no, they didn't want to use the word vegan,
that we're using these other complex terms
about animal rights and ecology and what-have-you.
And I really do like the simplicity and directness
and honesty of the word vegan, I like its
simplicity in a reference to a diet and ethics
and ecology and as a political heading.
I don't want to stop using the word vegan
because someone, somewhere, holds a trademark,
has the copyright, has the exclusive rights
to determine what isn't vegan.
I felt as though this was a word that all
of us owned, and all of us participated in
and that all of us were working towards.
You know starting out for ourselves with veganism
met in our own lives and yeah it comes as
a bit of a shock, it is fundamentally a little
bit weird to find out that no, it's a trademark,
even if it's the vegan society themselves
they hold that trademark and that it's a trademark
that is being milked for half a million dollars
a year.